Proliferation of “Fake News” and misinformation is resulting in widespread negative social fallout. Scalable Fake News classification techniques for resource poor languages like Hindi are in early stages because of a lack of datasets and lack of robust NLP libraries for these languages. Hindi Fake News Detection Dataset consists a total of 13000 data points  - 6000+ Fake and 6000+ Authentic News articles, authors, summary, key words and date of publication of article. We curated a dataset of around 13,000 data points of authentic news articles, and, articles on fake news authored by media organisations which flag fake news. This dataset was developed by Akash Bonagiri, Jathin Badam, Raju KVLN, Dipanjan Chakraborty and published in the Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies

If you would like to use this dataset, please cite:
- Akash, B. S., Jathin Badam, K. V. L. N. Raju, and Dipanjan Chakraborty. "A poster on learnings from an attempt to build an NLP-based fake news classification system for Hindi." In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies, pp. 397-401. 2021.[Article](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3460112.3471974)

Also, please have a look at our further work here:
- Badam, Jathin, Akash Bonagiri, Kvln Raju, and Dipanjan Chakraborty. "Aletheia: A fake news detection system for Hindi." In Proceedings of the 5th Joint International Conference on Data Science & Management of Data (9th ACM IKDD CODS and 27th COMAD), pp. 255-259. 2022.[Article](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3493700.3493736)

